I Have seen lots of posts asking for Recoil and attachment guides so I decided to make a detailed one for 2020. This guide for all guns up to shifting tides and should be valid for ages unless Ubisoft do a massive overhaul like they did in Grim sky. I highly recommend you read the whole thing if you can as I give reasoning for why I have picked a certain barrel (however there is a tldr at the start if you just want to know what is the best).

- What ATTACHMENTS do:

SUPPRESSOR: Suppressors will REMOVE SMOKE TRAILS (those white lines you see) when firing a weapon, as well as REMOVE THREAT INDICATORS (the white arc you see beside your crosshair when someone's firing at you), so maximum STEALTH, audio and visual wise. With the COST of REDUCED WEAPON DAMAGE BY 15%. It DOES NOT AFFECT RECOIL.

EXTENDED BARRELS: Extended barrels INCREASE LONG RANGE DAMAGE (>25m) BY 15-20%, again, it DOES NOT AFFECT RECOIL.

MUZZLE BREAK: Muzzle breaks REDUCE FIRST SHOT RECOIL(the first diamond) BY 45%, and it REDUCE CENTERING TIME(time it takes for the crosshair to automatically return to its original position when firing began) BY 45%.

COMPENSATOR: Compensators ONLY REDUCE RECOIL(size of the diamond) BY 17.75%.

FLASH HIDER: Flash hiders Muzzle breaks REDUCE FIRST SHOT RECOIL(the first diamond) BY 37.5%, and it REDUCE CENTERING TIME(time it takes for the crosshair to automatically return to its original position when firing began) BY 30%. As well as REDUCE RECOIL(size of the diamond) BY 5%. So it is a middle ground between the muzzle break and the compensator.

Extra note -The flash hider diverts the muzzle flash of your weapon sideways, so that it doesn’t obscure your view of your target. Some people find this feature very useful, others don’t notice muzzle flash enough for it to be a problem. The flash hider is a universally viable barrel attachment. It’s not always the best choice, but it’s never a bad choice. You could put it on every automatic weapon in the game and have no issues at all. Whenever I tested a weapon and there was no clear winner for which attachment was best, the flash hider won by default.

TLDR

MUZZLE BRAKE

All pistols (except IQ use a suppressor)

All DMR’s

P90

Buck

FLASH HIDER

SMG11

556xi

F2

MP5

6P41

MPX

Para 308

M249

Bearing 9

Vector45

T5smg

T95 Lsw

LMG E

Spear 308

V308

MX4 Storm

SPSMG9

AK74

ARX

AUG A3

COMPENSATOR

L85A2

AR33

MP5K

R4C

UMP45

552 Commando

G8A1

416 Carbine

MP7

AK12

9x19Vsn

Mk17 CQB

Type 89

C7E

PDW

K1A

Scorpion Evo

M4

Commando 9

EXTENDED BARREL

P10 roni

SUPPRESSOR

IQ P12

ANGLED GRIP (all other guns use vertical grip)

AR33

556xi

UMP45

G8A1

REASONS FOR RECOMMENDATIONS

SAS

L85A2 (Sledge, Thatcher) – Compensator (This Gun has massive horizontal recoil but almost no vertical recoil so compensator is a must).

Smg11 (Sledge, Mute, Smoke) – Flash hider (Dont bother trying to full auto this gun…. Fire in small burst to be able to control. Recoil is mostly vertical anyway so Flash hider is best)

AR33 ANGLED (Thatcher) Compensator – (Similar to the L85A2 but even more of a laser… So much so that slap on a compensator and the recoil is so little you can throw on an angled grip and turn into a fragger).

FMG9 (Smoke, Nokk) Flash hider – (Use the shotgun with smoke at all times but for Nokk this gun has no vertical or horizontal recoil really so Flash hider is just the best default option).

MP5K (Mute, Wamai) Flash Hider/Compensator (More Horizontal recoil than vertical but the recoil is so little you can interchange barrels).

FBI SWAT

R4C (Ash) Compensator – (No vertical recoil but very large horizontal recoil. Use compensator and just pull to the left)

556Xi ANGLED (Fragmite) – Flash hider (More horizontal recoil than Vertical however when you slap an angled grip on this gun after you blow the wall you can frag out. Use flash hider to make up for lack of vertical grip)

UMP45 ANGLED (Pulse) Compensator – (No Vertical recoil and compensator makes it a laser so use angled grip)

GIGN

F2 (Twitch) Flash hider – (After the Nerf this gun has A decent amount of horizontal and vertical recoil. So use Flash hider to make the First 3-5 shots close together then that will also make the rest of the recoil lower)

MP5 (Doc, Rook) Flash hider – (This gun has large horizontal recoil but there is no compensator available so flash hider is the next best option).

GSG9

AUG A2 (Wamai, IQ) Flash hider – (ahaha this gun actually shoots straight up so flash hider is best)

552 Commando (IQ) Compensator – (This gun has a decent amount of vertical recoil but a large amount of horizontal recoil so Compensator with vertical grip counters both)

G8A1 Angled (IQ, Amaru) Compensator – (Low Vertical recoil and it being an LMG makes angled grip the preference on this gun. Use compensator to counter Horizontal recoil)

416 Carbine (Jager) Compensator – (This gun is laser but most of the recoil is horizontal so use compensator)

MP7 (Bandit) Compensator/Flash hider – (This gun doesnt have a vertical grip so you could use the flash hider to counter a small amount of vertical recoil but most of it is horizontal so I prefer the compensator).

SPETNAZ

AK12 (FUZE) – Compensator – (I mean it has large amounts of both types of recoil but the horizontal is larger and for vertical you can just pull down so compensator is the best)

6P41 (Finka, Fuze) – Flash hider – (The recoil is all vertical and you get a vertical grip so this gun is a laser. Anyway its either this or a suppressor so flash hider wins)

9x19-VSN (Kapkan) Compensator – (No vertical recoil but large horizontal recoil so use the compensator)

JTF2

C8-SFW (Buck) Muzzle – (Now this gun kicks like a mule but its all vertical since there is no vertical grip due to the skeleton key gadget. Use muzzle as reducing the first shot recoil by the most will also decrease the follow up shots as well if you understand what I mean).

NAVY SEAL

MK17-CQB (Blackbeard) Compensator- (I mean this gun fires really slow so the recoil is all horizontal so use compensator)

MPX (Valkyrie, Warden) Compensator/Flash hider (There is no recoil on this gun but if you want to have the least recoil use compensator but I use flash hider just to divert muzzle flash)

BOPE

PARA-308 (Capitao) Flash Hider/Compensator (Same as Mpx really comp is better but I like flash to get rid of the muzzle flash)

M249 (Capitao and Gridlock) Flash hider (Even less recoil than the Para and its all vertical so flash is best)

M12 (Cav) Flash hider (Dont use this gun its trash and has a decent amount of horizontal recoil but doesnt even allow you to run a compensator. Next best for horizontal recoil is flash).

SAT

Type 89 (Hibana) – Compensator (The horizontal recoil of this is off the charts so the only option in my opinion is Compensator. It only has 21 bullets so use comp to make the first 5-7 horizontal shots accurate

Bearing 9 (Echo, Hibana) Flash (Dont spray just burst fire this one as the horizontal recoil is small but really random. Very large Vertical recoil)

GEO

C7E (Jackal) – Compensator (This gun has mostly horizontal recoil so comp makes it a laser)

PDW 9 (Jackal) – Compensator (Same as C7E)

Vector45 ACP (Mira, Goyo) Flash hider (This gun is all vertical so flash is best)

SDU

T5 SMG (Lesion) Flash hider (Complete laser, all vertical recoil but there is none, flash hider wins by default)

T95 LSW (Ying) Flash hider (Same as lesion but the vertical recoil is way higher)

GROM

Scorpion Evo 3 A1 (Ela) Compensator (No chance with this random horizontal recoil but compensator is best)

M762 (Zofia) Flash Hider/Compensator (With this one comp is better but I use acog so I prefer flash hider. There is no recoil either way but it is mostly horizontal).

LMG-E (Zofia) Flash Hider (The recoil is all vertical so compensator is useless. Flash is the best option here)

707th SMB

K1A (Vigil) Compensator (After you slap on compensator this gun becomes a laser as there is absolutely no vertical recoil so to counter the horizontal recoil compensator is the best pick.

CBRN Threat unit

SPEAR-308 (Finka) Flash hider (This gun has little recoil but its all vertical so use flash)

V308 (Lion) Flash hider (Same as Finka)

GIS

Mx4 Storm (Alibi) Flash hider (This gun has little horizontal recoil but a decent amount of horizontal recoil but flash turns it into a laser)

ALDA-556 (Maestro) Compensator/Flash hider (This gun has large horizontal recoil and a bit of vertical recoil as well although the horizontal recoil is larger. I use Flash to deal with both and due to using an ACOG but compensator is good as well)

GSUTR

M4 (Maverick) Compensator/Flash hider (Same as maestro and I use flash due to flash sometimes blocking the hole I make but I can switch to compensator and still do well)

SPSMG9 (Clash) Flash hider (only other choice is suppressor so flash wins)

GIGR

AK74M/ARX (Nomad) Flash hider (Both guns have higher vertical recoil due to the lack of vertical grip but only some horizontal recoil. Use flash hider to reduce both)

AUG A3 (Kaid) Flash hider (I mean you shouldn't be using this gun but it has no recoil so hey why not? Flash hider wins by default)

SASR

Commando 9 (Mozzie) Compensator (This gun has really weird horizontal recoil so just use compensator to straighten it up)

P10 roni (Mozzie) Extended Barrel + Vertical grip or Flash hider + Angled grip (Yep its true this gun has no recoil whatsoever but I still dont feel comfortable using both Extended barrel and angled grip so I change it between those two combinations. I use to use the commando but the roni might be better)

The rest are recycled weapons but in short

Nokk- Flash hider (FMG)

Warden – Flash hider (MPX)

Amaru Compensator + Angled (G8A1)

Goyo Flash hider (Vector)

Wamai Flash hider (Aug)
